Welcome to Intermediate react version 4.
What I would like you to do right now is I
want you to go get on bit.li/reactv7.
Make sure that's all lowercase, no spaces,
and that should take you to this page,
there's just a short link, so you don't
have to type all of this business out.
The intro to react and intermediate
react website of the same one,
so you can see the first part of
this is all the intro part, and
then down here section 8 is where
intermediate react V4 starts.
So the way that this course works,
as opposed to the way that intro worked.
Intro worked, we built one entire
projects, beginning to end,
every section built on the previous one.
This one works a little bit differently
because with intermediate react,
I want you to be able to kind of pick and
choose so the concepts you wanna learn so
you don't have to go learn things
that you're not interested in and
you can just kind of stick
to the ones that you want.
So each one of these sections
is in its own silo, right?
So what we're actually gonna do is we're
gonna take the project that we built in
complete intro to react V7 and then we're
gonna add additional features just to it.
So if you've taken intro to react V7,
you'll already be up to speed, you'll
already understand all of the concepts
that we went over and the code repo.
For those of you who haven't,
I'm gonna give you like a little brief
tour of what happens in that code.
You do not need to take previous
versions of this course, right?
So you don't need to take v3 or
v2 or v1 of intermediate react.
This is just a like a revision, right?
So we're just keeping
everything up super up to date.
So that when you watch this course,
it's the most up to date react
information you can get.
So we tend to redo this
every 6 months to a year.
Yeah, that's it, it's pretty close.
And we'll definitely be doing version
8 here fairly soon because react 18
is about to come out and
that's gonna introduce a bunch of
new intermediate advanced concepts.
So the reason that we're not doing react
version 18 right now is that it's still in
release candidate.
And I just didn't wanna teach
you anything unstable, right?
They're still changing some things.
They still have like reserve the right to
change some things and some paradigms.
And it's also good to like let
those libraries kind of sit out
in production for a little bit so
we can kind of figure out what patterns
work, what patterns don't work.
So that by the time that I can teach you
these things that you're actually getting
like settled science instead of, Brian
thinks this seems a good idea, good luck.
[LAUGH] I still do that but at least
I'll tell you when I do that to you.
Okay, so who is this course for?
Hopefully it's for you.
The other thing I'm wanna ask that
you know is JavaScript, HTML.
We'll do a little bit of CSS cuz
we'll talk about it and tailwind, but
it'll be pretty minimal.
We've mostly focused on it like
the JavaScript side of tailwind.
So in other words, some CSS
familiarity will be helpful to you.
And then if you're taking intermediate
now I've asked that you at
least take an intro to react V7, or
are already know react fairly well.
If this is your first exposure to react,
please go take complete intro to react V7
first and then come back here and we'll
talk about the intermediate concepts.
The setup here, I've tested
everything on Mac OS and Windows 10.
If you're on Windows 11, I'm sorry I'm
not testing that [LAUGH] said as a former
person that worked at Microsoft.
Linux everything should just work just
fine if you use the Mac OS instructions,
I don't think anything has to change.
Please install no-js,
please make sure you're on a node version,
let's say more recent than 12, preferably
14 or above, I think 12 would work but
we found out yesterday that 8
definitely doesn't work so don't do 8.
In general, just pretend it didn't happen.
So I have some setup instructions here for
you if you need to go and set up node,
you do not have to use Visual Studio code.
I used to be a pm on Visual Studio code so
I will be using it and
you'll get some cool tips and
tricks and extensions to use.
I added some new ones this time.
So there's some really cool new
Visual Studio code stuff in here that I'll
be teaching you.
So people always ask me
what my coding setup is.
So I just run through that really quick so
people don't tweet me Brian,
tell me about all of your editor settings.
I'm using Mona Lisa.
It's a cool font.
It is not free.
But, people deserve to be paid for
the work, so I'm fine with that.
And I have cold ligatures, enabled which
allows you to have combined glyphs right
so if you put like double equals
make like a log equal sign if
you put triple equals that
make like a triple equal sign,
it'll do things like that and I'll show
you that when I get in my code editor.
You just needed like a certain
kind of font that can do that,
Mona Lisa can do it,
Dank Mono can do that, FIRA code or
actually really quite like Cascadia code,
Cascadia code is put up by Microsoft,
it is free and it has code ligatures in
it so go ahead and check that one out.
For my team, I actually just use dark
plus which is the default Vs code theme,
because I have one that I like better.
For the terminal, I actually just
use MAC's built in terminal.
It's fast, it's really fast actually.
But I've used in the past and it's great.
And then on Windows,
I do like Windows terminal.
And then all the cool icons comes from
an extension called VS code icons.
Okay, so where to file issues,
you file issues on the course website.
If you just click here, it allows you
to open issues or open pull requests.
You can see it actually during while
teaching this I've already close to two
issues, and I think close to
pull requests, so I try and
stay on top of these.
So if you find like spelling mistakes or
technical mistakes or
you just wanna tell me that I'm done,
go ahead and do that in the issues.
Or you can tweet to me, that's fine too,
particularly if you need help.
The best places to go is the issues
because if you're having an issue,
chances is someone else is having
the issue and if you do it, you and
I do it over a DMs, that I have to
solve that problem for everyone, right?
Whereas if we do it on like issues,
then anyone can go to the GitHub repo and
find the problems and
solve them from there.
So that's why I like doing
it all in the issues.
Okay, who am I?
I'm Brian.
I work at stripe.
I am the product manager
of developer tools.
So I work on like the VS code extension,
the stripe CLI,
the stripe server side SDK is
the React Native SDK, test and sandboxes,
all sorts of, basically if you're writing
using tools to build stripe integration,
that's the stuff that
I manage it at stripe.
Before that I worked on Azure and
I worked on visual studio code as a PM and
then before that I was a JavaScript
developer for a decade.
And I wrote a lot of React at
places like Netflix and Reddit.
I launched Reddit's first react code.
That's one of my claims to fame.
I did that in 2014.
So I've been writing react for
quite a few years,
I was a early adopter of React and I'm
happy that I made the right call there,
[LAUGH] I wrote a lot of Angular
before that Angular 1 and
I also wrote a decent amount of
ember when I worked at LinkedIn.
So I like teaching in front of Masters.
I'm here fairly frequently.
I live in Seattle.
I like to hang out with my wife and
I actually just had a kid in December.
He's very cute.
And I also still have my
adorable little jerk dog Luna,
who I still talk about in
every course that I teach.
When I'm not doing technical stuff or
hanging out with my family,
I like exercising, I played data and
overwatch very poorly.
And I drink a lot of
Scotch cuz I like Scotch.
Feel free to catch up with me on socials.
I'm terrible at answering DMs.
I disclaim that a lot because people get
sad that I don't answer all the DMs.
But feel free to tweet me, I'm pretty
good at answering public tweets.
And then yeah, so there's two repos for
this particular website or for
this particular class.
There's the website 1.
So if you go here, this is where
actually all of the lessons are.
You can see here, they're all just
organized here into markdown files.
Right, and it's all here.
So if you find something to fix,
that's where you wanna go do it.
And then what you need to go clone
right now is the example projects.
So this is step by step all of
the various different states of the repo
that we're gonna be using, right?
So for example, you can see here
that there's a Redux 1, right, and
this is gonna be the state of the world
after we do the Redux portion of the site.
So it's good for you to be able to see
what's changing what I'm writing up here?
So if you fall behind,
you can go in here, you can click on,
what his results look like right now and
you can see that here, right?
Specifically, the ones you need to
be concerned with is, 1 through 12,
here's what we built in
complete intro to react V7.
For all of our various different sections,
we're gonna take this step 12 1, and
we're just going to reclone it and
reuse it again, and
we're gonna start fresh with that
particular project every single time.
So just get used to copying and
reinstalling the dependencies for
this particular folder right there.
And I'll show you what I
mean once we get into it.
Okay, if you have issues with the content,
please just either fix them and
open a PR or
leave a issue on the course website.
So check that one more than the project 1.
And then just kind of a overview of
the website here that you're looking at in
front of you.
These are literally my courses.
You can see that I have
two computers here.
On this computer,
I'm not just on Reddit or
something like that I am, but it's fine,
you don't have to worry about that.
But I also have the course
website up here, and
I'm just reading off my notes here.
And I open source all those notes so
that you can use them, you can share them,
you can refer to them later,
you can send them to your co workers.
It's meant to be a kind of
a companion site here, so
you can see what I'm seeing here.
>> What do you think separates
a good react engineer
from a great react engineer?
>> It's a good question.
What separates a good react engineer
from a great react engineer?
I don't know if I can think of
anything that's gonna be particularly
tailored to react.
In general, the best engineers that
I've worked with communicate super well.
And when I say that they, like let's say,
I come into your office and
I say, hey, I need you to build this
new search functionality that allows
users to checkout faster or
something like that, right?
A good engineer is going to ask a lot of
follow up questions so that they can get
the product requirements down to like,
okay, we need to build this and this and
this and so
they understand the problem domain really,
really well before they
start working on something.
That has been historically that the
engineers I've seen that perform the best
at can take something
that's really ambiguous and
distill it down to step by step steps that
they can then go out and build, right?
It's a really junior engineer kind
of move to go in and just say, okay,
I'll build it.
And then they just go build something and
it's not what was actually
meant to be built.
So those kinds of like human
interaction personal skills like,
that's what makes the best engineers.
I'll say that when I worked at Netflix
which is probably the hardest front end
work that I ever had to do,
it was the most advanced,
was the most performance sensitive.
95% of my job there could have been
done by literally any junior engineer
anywhere, right?
It was just mostly marshaling
JavaScript and CSS around,
which most of us can do fairly well,
right?
It was that last 5% that
was really difficult.
Scaling problems or problems that you run
into that you can't just Google and say,
how do I do x, right?
And that was what the senior part of my
senior engineering title kind of came in
is like, okay, I've seen this before at
Reddit, this happened we did these things.
This didn't work and this didn't happen.
So that experience helps a lot as well.
Trying to think if there's anything else
that I would really say that sets apart
a great engineer.
It really comes down to communication and
experience are really the two things that
are gonna set people apart as they
move forward in their career.
The most effective engineers like
know how to work well with others and
like be a force multiplier for
their entire team.
Like we've heard of the mythical 10x
engineer helps other people be twice as
productive, right?
If they can do that for
five people then they are a 10x engineer.